Hi guys, and welcome back.
In this video, I wanted to tell you about the zip function.
In the last video, we saw this code
where we have our friends and how long ago we saw them.
And let's say we wanted to create a dictionary
of the friend names to the time since we last saw them.
We saw how we could add a conditional here
if we wanted to filter out friends that we haven't seen
for five days or more.
But let's say that we don't want to do that.
If you want to create a dictionary like this,
you actually don't have to run this code.
You can run something a bit simpler.
If you manage to combine these two lists
into one list with this format,
where you've got a pair of elements
as each element of the list,
then you can just pass this through the dict function
as we've seen earlier on in the course
in order to get a dictionary.
But how do you combine these two lists
into something like this?
Well, that's where the zip function comes into play.
You can do zip friends and time_since_seen,
and that is essentially going to run a zipper
through both of these lists, closing them up
and combining them into one list
where each element of the new list is a tuple of elements.
So that's gonna be Rolf and 3,
Bob and 7, Jen and 15, Anne and 11.
So you can actually just use this code
instead of this list comprehension,
and it will be a little bit simpler, just like that.
Notice that if we turn this into a list
and print it out, you'll see that zip turns them into a list
of tuples like this.
As an interesting aside, if you just print out the result
of calling zip, you won't see something like that.
You'll see something a bit more confusing.
We're going to be learning more about these things
as we go through the course, but for now just know
that zip essentially combines two lists
or more into one list.
I say or more, because you can have more lists here
if you want.
So if we do something like this
and turn it into a list, you'll see
that now the tuples have three elements.
Rolf, 3, 1.
Bob, 7, 2.
Jen, 15, 3, and so on.
Do note that this list was longer than these two lists.
It has five elements instead of four,
but zip will just ignore any elements
that don't match the other lists.
So you will always end up with something
like the shortest list.
Thank you for joining me in this video.
I hope you've learned something,
and I'll see you in the next one.